# hard-and-soft-ensemble
## WEIGHTED HARD AND SOFT VOTING ENSEMBLE MACHINE LEARNING CLASSIFIERS: APPLICATION TO ANAEMIA DIAGNOSIS 
 Anaemia is one of the deadliest incurable diseases globally, and its incidence continues to rise. Early identification of the disease helps to fight it; however, blood tests can be considered invasive, discouraging its accomplishment. The manual method of detecting and classifying abnormal cells in blood films using a microscope is time-consuming, tedious, prone to error, and requires a trained haematologist.  Hence, having an effective way of classifying the abnormalities present in anaemia will provide a better insight into managing the patient’s life. In this vein, this work aims to build machine learning models as an alternative to traditional examinations to identify the disease by combining statistical learning models for anaemia classification. These models were used separately and together using hard and soft voting classifiers. Oversampling technique (SMOTE) was used to balance the data set.  The results showed that when a soft voting classifier and a hard voting classifier were employed with the first set of models, the Matthew’s Correlation Coefficient (MCC) provided a better result using the soft voting classifier than the individual models. However, using the hard and soft voting classifier on the second set of models weighted by the MCC did not result in improved performance. With the exception of sensitivity, where KNN excelled, the Light GBM Classifier (LGB) outperformed all other models. Hyperparameter adjustment of the models can improve these measures in the future. 


